No, Ike's laughing at it. Well, why are you laughing, Ike? Why are you laughing?
Why am I laughing?
Yeah, you're laughing at us about-
Upgrade conflict.
Yeah, upgrade conflict.
You have package conflicts.
Yeah, yeah. Why is that funny?
I'm the whole PC Master Race peasant laugh now because I don't have package conflicts.
So for me, this is hilarious. This is all the reasons why Solus exists.
How can Solus never have a package conflict? How is that possible? How can you never have
a package-
Because nothing is allowed to conflict with another package in the Solus. You have a single
provider of a thing that does a thing. You don't have 15 different JPEG turbos or alternate
versions of them. You pick one and you build to use that. So to me, I find this hilarious.
These are the problems that Solus set out to solve.
You bastard.
So-
How dare you?
I'm enjoying this so much.
The audacity there. All right, so you're telling me that I never- How can that be? How can
you have a diverse package? How can you have all the kinds of applications I want and never
run into conflicts? Simply the reason, it just seems simply because at a certain point
at scale, you have so many different software developers that are targeting so many different
libraries or certain dependencies that it's just unavoidable.
We don't let them in. You know how for RPM packages you have package conflict build dependencies.
We have that in Solus as well. We only allow a single provider of a package conflict name
in the repos. Like when we set out, this has been since day one. You may only have a single
provider of a given sole name, a given provider of a package conflict name. It does not enter
the repo. If your file conflicts or any one of those issues, it's just not allowed to
do it.
For when we're renaming packages on an update, which we've done before, we have a mechanism
called obsolete. The first thing that happens when you update is the obsolete package is
automatically removed. If there's one that replaces it, that's set to replace it. It's
allowed to path conflict during that update. It's already configured to handle that. During
that, it knows the other package is being removed. It knows this one is coming in. It
automatically ignores certain files while it's letting that happen because only one
package is allowed to provide those set of files and it's set to replace it.
This is Linux Unplugged, episode 172 for November 22nd, 2016.
Welcome to Linux Unplugged, your weekly Linux talk show that might be slightly inebriated
from some prerecordings that were happening earlier today. My name is Chris.
My name is Wes.
And I cannot confirm or deny these baseless claims by the chat room.
Baseless. Come on, guys. No faith in us.
Either way, we're here.
We know us too well.
We've got a great episode lined up for you coming up on this week's episode of the show,
Our Fresh Impressions of Fedora 25 and the man steering that project, Mr. Matt, will
join us to discuss the new release. And later on in the show, we'll get an update from
Ubicon. We'll talk about a new potential Linux appliance that could save the day. Then later
on, not only will we get the inside dope on how System76 got the Ubuntu desktop tweaked
to support 4K, but let's discuss the modification. I'm using that.
Strong word.
I'm coining that. But let's talk about the world where we have Surface Books, Surface
Studios, MacBook Touch Bars, mobile, tablets, the hardware, the software, the platform.
It's all created by one vendor, and it's getting harder and harder to get Linux on these systems.
What is the solution here? And is there a long term problem as general X86 vendors become
less and less incentivized to participate in the PC business? Is there going to be less
and less hardware that Linux can run on out of the box? We'll discuss that and what some
of the potential solutions could be for that. And then towards the end of the show, I want
to talk about benchmarking the feel of it. I'm talking about that feel when you drag
the window across the screen, that feel when you're accessing files on your hard drive
and loading programs and you're still using your system and opening menus, the way it
feels when a program launches and snaps up. How do you benchmark that feel? Well, Aiki
is joining us from the Solus Project, and I get a good sense that you think about the
way things feel a lot.
I get that feeling too.
And so we'll get a little input from him and the rest of our virtual lug on how you benchmark
the feel of something. Because I'll tell you what, Wes. In the back of my mind, I'm working
on a project. I'm working on a long term project. So before we go any further, we got to do
our duty. We got to bring in that mumble room. Time appropriate greetings, virtual lug. Hello,
guys.
Hello.
I love that.
Whoa!
Jeez, that was a lot. Hello, guys. Jeez, I get back and that it is good. It is good
to be.
I think they missed you too.
I think they missed me too, because when I was listening on the road, I wanted to constantly
jump in. I was like, let me, I got to, oh, wait, no, I can't. And I actually, I apologize.
I did try to remote in, only I was double-natted. And I did what I never want people to do.
And I connected in over a double-nat, and it sounded like crap. So I apologize to everybody
for that.
But you tried.
I did want to give my input so badly. It was painful. But it was also fun to listen to,
even though Noah sounded like death warmed over. It was pretty bad. But we have so much
to get into. And I'm going to give a little plugsy. I digged, I was just telling Wes before
the show started that I went down to meet BSD, because I've gone to a lot of, just,
I don't know, all of the big Linux events that I kind of ever wanted to go to, except
You've been there, seen that.
Except for the ones that are outside the US. That's still on my bucket list. But the ones
inside the US, I've pretty much checked off all of those boxes. And I've really gotten
a feel for what it's like for community-run events and big commercial events and everything
in between. So I wanted to see what it was like when the BSD cousins got together.
What is the other side like? And so, during last week, I was off in Berkeley, California,
the home of BSD. I figured, like, if this was ever the time, go back to where BSD lives,
see where BSD was born, see how the other side lives, get experience in that. And I
thought I'd go down there, and I thought I'd create two videos. I thought I'd come back
and in 172, you and I would be listening to a couple of BSD keynotes, and we'd be discussing
the things that the speaker said, and just a couple clips. Yeah. So I got down there,
and I thought, wow, turns out I've got four videos. And then I got back, and I said, wow,
it turns out I have got six videos. I think on Sunday, even, on the Linux Action Show,
I said, six videos are going to be released, one a day next, starting the week after Thanksgiving.
And then now I'm sitting here on Tuesday. So just two days later, I'm like, actually,
I've got eight videos, eight videos, that I'll be releasing on my personal channel,
because they're not all technical in nature. Sure. They're more like behind the scenes
Jupiter broadcasting stuff, the experience, yeah. YouTube.com slash C slash Chris Fisher,
that's my name. And starting next Monday, I'll release one a day for, so far, eight
days. I think I'm, I don't know. I'm going to see how far I can get. See when it stops.
I got a lot more stuff shot, because Noah was here in town, and we were doing a bunch
of stuff, so I just kept the cameras rolling when I got back. So we'll see how far I get
before I just get totally overwhelmed with all the other work. But that'll start coming
out next week. YouTube.com slash C slash Chris Fisher, that's my name, if you want to see
the videos from that. So it was a good experience. It was a lot of fun. But let's talk about
Linux. You want to talk about Linux, Wes? Yeah, always. Do you like talking about Linux?
Because I thought maybe we could talk about Linux. Let's do it. This is CNN Breaking News.
As we record today's episode of the Unplugged program, Fedora 25 has been released. The
latest and greatest from the Fedora project. And the guy that runs that Fedora project
is joining us. Matt, welcome back to Linux Unplugged. It's great to have you here. Thanks.
It's great to be back. So first of all, before we go any further, congratulations on the
new release. Always awesome to see a new Fedora released. And I know when I think of Fedora
25, what I think of is Wayland by default. Is that really what I should be thinking of?
And what else are you thinking of when you think of specifically like the workstation
release and some of the other versions? Yeah, so I think Wayland by default is definitely
the big story on the workstation release. That's something that the graphics and desktop
teams have been working to for a long time. So it's very cool to finally have that. You
know, GNOME 3.22 is a nice release as well. And I think there's kind of an understated
story there as well, because in the beginning of GNOME 3, each update was kind of rough
as sort of the initial ideas of GNOME 3 got kind of polished and they hit the real world
and kind of responded to feedback. But it's kind of gotten to where it's really gotten
into its groove. And so one of the things that we kind of identified as a feature here
is that your shell extensions are probably expected to just keep working now if you have
anything that like puts the top icons up on the bar. Because basically, the shell is not
expected to change so much that it's likely to break those things. I'm excited about that
as well. Yeah, and I feel like that has been getting better over the last few releases.
So as a project, you know, I noticed that immediately now, there is a post by Justin
on upgrading from Fedora 24 to Fedora 25. How official is this as a process as a project
upgrading from one release to another now? Oh, yeah, absolutely official. So it's definitely
especially, it's been something I've been working on for over the last couple releases.
So actually, I noticed somebody in your channel asking for Fedora LTS. And I've heard other
people talking about a rolling release. And sometimes it's the same person that says
Fedora should either be an LTS or a rolling release, which is weird, because those are
very different in what you get from that. And so when I when I ask, 90% of the time,
what people mean is, upgrades suck, they're painful, and things break, and it takes a
long time after basically give up three days to upgrade. And so I can't run Fedora because
I can't afford to block out three days every six months. Right. And as much as we tell
people, really, you've got 13 months, just once a year, it still doesn't doesn't resonate
very well. So we really worked on making the upgrades go more smoothly. So first, we had
FedUp, which is a name that I really loved, you know, Fedora upgrade FedUp. And you can
actually still run the new DNF system upgrade as FedUp, which I do myself, because it's
the best. But yeah, so this new DNF based system upgrade uses basically the same system
D based offline updates that the GNOME software updates do. And so the nice thing about it,
it's really fast, like I was shocked, I upgraded my system in under half an hour when I went
to do the upgrade. And some of that was just like waiting for it to download, I could still
do things. So really, like, click the button, go out for coffee, come back and you have
the new release. So are you delaying or doing some sort of rollout for the notification
for those that are going to use the GNOME software? Or is it just when their distro
checks in on the repo? It's when it checks in. And I think someone on Reddit, we figured
out that it does that daily. I wasn't actually quite sure what the thing was. So it should
basically hit all at once. We've got a pretty extensive mirror network. So I think that
should be okay.
So I'm looking forward to it. I've got it in. Well, I actually I attempted to install
it, I was going to throw down a challenge to Wes, are you? Wes, are you ready for a
challenge?
Oh, there we go. Much better.
So contained on this red 16 gigabyte Toshiba USB 3.0 flash drive is Fedora 25 workstation.
I was gonna say no, but since it's USB 3.0, yes. Those are fair terms, Chris. Those are
fair terms. I'll do it.
Wes, behind you is the Entryware Apollo.
A fine rig, if ever there was one.
It was just recently running Ubuntu Mate 16.10 perfectly. So why not replace that with Fedora
25? However, I attempted to install earlier today in preparation of this very show, Wes.
I take it it did not go well.
After reboot, nothing happened. Dead. Now you are clear and free to wipe all hard drives.
Okay, okay.
Redo all the loads.
To purge all the mistakes Chris has made here.
Your challenge, if you choose to accept it, is before the end of the show have a working
Fedora 25 installation on the Apollo Entryware behind you plugged in currently.
Do you accept the challenge, sir?
Yes, I do.
Oh, all right. Then here you go. I issue you your thumb drive.
Last drive accepted.
Awesome.
Good luck. All right. That'll be my review machine right there if I get it working. Because
it's got the Intel graphics, so I should be able to do Gnome 3 and Wayland out of the
box, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
I'm looking forward to that. So that'll be my test machine. One of my test machines at
least.
Well, the other big thing I wanted to talk about, so we've had this Fedora Next thing
for the last couple of years, which is basically thinking about what we're doing on purpose
rather than just continuing to keep doing what we've always done just because we do
it.
Well said.
And one of the things we cited as part of that is to have these basically separate additions
to address different use cases. So we've got the workstation, which is basically a technical
user desktop with the caveat that technical users are people too, and so we wanted to
be easy use. And then a server as well. And then the third thing we had was Fedora Cloud,
which was kind of envisioned to be a platform for doing scale out cloud computing things.
And I was hoping we would do SCL software collections on top of that. And for various
reasons that didn't pan out very well. But meanwhile, containers came along and we had
this ongoing revolution in how operating systems are put together. And so with Fedora 25, we've
replaced Fedora Cloud with Fedora Atomic as one of our top level additions. And so Fedora
Atomic is...
Ah, okay. So I thought I was just getting confused. That makes a lot of sense. See,
I thought I was just being silly. So now Fedora Atomic is one of the... Is it an addition
or a flavor? What's the right vernacular?
Yeah, addition is our official term. Flavors is more broad, so I include the additions
and the spins and everything in the flavors.
So is Fedora Atomic... When I think of a Project Atomic transactional update, so what is Fedora
Atomic?
Yeah, so Fedora Atomic is an implementation of Project Atomic, basically. So Project Atomic
is kind of the theoretical umbrella. So there's RHEL Atomic and CentOS Atomic and Fedora Atomic.
And so this is just like Fedora in general, a fast-moving upstream version of Atomic.
A two-week release cycle?
Absolutely. So it's based on the Fedora 25 base, but then there are updates every two
weeks with new package sets and everything.
Wow.
And unlike most of Fedora, like you were talking about, you know, the 13-month life cycle...
Sorry, I'm getting so excited I can't talk. Basically, we're only supporting the latest
version of Atomic. So if there's a problem, it's update to the latest two-week thing.
And now that Fedora 25 is out, we're not supporting the Fedora 24 Atomic at all.
And just so I'm clear, the deal with Atomic is if I do an update in something borks, I
can transactionally roll back, right? So it's lower risk, in a sense.
Absolutely, yeah. So basically, it's kind of like Git for your operating system in a
lot of the concepts. So basically, you can check out a certain point, and then that's
what you have as your operating system.
Slick. I like that. And then what do you mean when you say that Fedora will also offer a
Docker-formatted base image? Is this...
Yes. So we have... That basically means there's a Fedora Docker image that will be...
That I can start with to create some... Ah, okay.
It's what you get when you say, you know, Docker run Fedora, that's what you'll get.
Neat. That sounds kind of fun to be with.
And so we're actually also working on, and should be in production like literally any
moment now, a thing where Fedora contributors can, using basically the same workflow that
we use to create RPMs, create Docker images that are layered on top of that base using
RPMs in the Fedora distro.
Wow. Matt, that is some super great stuff. And it's interesting because it's sort of
treating the Docker hub and all of that as just another distribution platform for Fedora.
It's...
Yeah, basically. And then, of course, people, you know, users can build on top of that to,
you know, build their own applications and things they need. So that will be... Because
with Atomic, you can, using basically a debug mode, install different RPMs directly onto
your system. But basically, part of the trade off you get for having the Atomic updates
is you get a system that is like, you know, the same image everywhere, which is also good
for QA, but hard for like, how do I get my application onto here and actually do things?
Right.
And the answer is you do that in containers. Like the idea is the base should be small
and minimal and not a bunch of custom stuff on it. And everything you do goes in a container.
So the next step, obviously, is where do my containers come from? So that's the...
That is exactly where it seems to be that the puck is going. I had... When I was gone
last week, I met the gentleman that is in charge of all of the network storage for LinkedIn
and also for one of the gentlemen that's in charge of all of the network infrastructure
and services for Groupon, as well as one of the network engineers at Intel, and one of
the guys that works at Level 3. And all of them, all of them were talking about using
containers to host services that they use now. All of them. Even the ones that were
there to talk about BSD and talk about... They were talking about using Jails, and when
they weren't talking about their BSD systems, they're using containers on Linux. Not all
of them are necessarily using Docker.
Interesting.
Yeah, but that is definitely where they're going. So I often think about, well, it seems
like Canonical has a super strong presence here with Ubuntu. They've really been benefiting
well here. I don't know how well SUSE is doing here, but it sounds like Fedora, with 25 especially,
has a really solid answer here.
We like to think so, yeah. And I think as we're going forward, I talked about Atomic
and Workstation, but not very much about Server in this release. I think Fedora Server, this
is kind of an incremental release here for Fedora Server. New versions of stuff, et cetera,
et cetera. Some of the things highlighted in the release notes. But next release, we're
actually going to put together a version of Server that is hopefully composed of different
containers running a lot of the base services as an experimental version of it. So more
of the stuff in containers. I think it's definitely the future of the operating system.
Wow. Well, so Noah and I will be reviewing the Fedora 25 Workstation edition this Sunday.
And Wes will get it installed here on the Apollo, I'm sure. I'm going to load it on
a couple other machines. I'm really looking forward to trying it, especially because a
few of my machines, I think, are Intel graphics. So the Wayland, just getting to try that out.
And just even if it's not perfect, it's going to be exciting.
So you want that smooth desktop.
I do. I do. We'll talk about that more. But Wimpy, I was looking at the different features
of Fedora 25. And one of the features that jumped out at me is in Fedora 25, Mate 1.16
is available, which is the switch to GTK 3. What do you think about that? And what are
your thoughts about how awesome it is right now that a current version of Fedora is able
to ship Mate 1.16, and it's based on GTK 3. This seems like a big step forward just for
the Mate platform in general. Do you agree?
Yeah. So Wolfgang Albrecht is the Fedora maintainer for Mate, and he has done that work. And it
was he and I and Mike Gabriel who got together earlier this year. So Mike Gabriel is a Debian
developer. And the three of us got together and agreed we would land the GTK 3 version,
solely the GTK 3 version in those three distros for the 1.16 release. So yeah, there's been
several distros working towards that. And yeah, it's only because the Fedora release
schedule was offset slightly from the Ubuntu release schedule that Ubuntu got there first.
But we actually arrived with Mate 1.6 or GTK 3 at the same time. And then it was just as
the release is landed. So when Debian 9 lands next year, that will be 1.16 as well, GTK
3 only.
That is so awesome for Mate, because once Debian 9 ships, everything major being on
that release version, GTK 3 being available for all of them, is big for things. Because
it's like GTK 3.20 too, right? So that means flat pack supports in there, but also like
high DPI supports in there and all these other things, right?
Yeah. And now the job at hand is to sort of polish that 1.16 release. So we've got Debian
coming up with their release, and it will be an intensive bug squishing season now as
that approaches to try and really shine it up.
Do you have a cold wimpy?
No, I have an empty bottle of wine in front of me.
Oh.
Much better.
I was actually hoping you were going to say yes, because I mean not that I want you to
be sick at all, but that was going to be my super smooth transition to Ubicon. And I thought
you weren't going to be here this week. Both you and wimpy are here, I thought for sure.
I thought you were traveling, I've been watching your Twitter feed this week, and I thought
you were at Ubicon, which apparently I had totally missed the date on. So guys, I'm glad
you were able to make it. Poppy, let's start with you. Welcome back. Did you manage to
get the Concrud, or did you avoid any of the Concrud, meeting with all your fellow Ubuntuers?
Yeah, it was great. It was really nice to meet up with friends and watch a bunch of
talks and have beer in the evening and cool conversations in corridors and meet new people
and record interviews for our podcast and all kinds of good stuff. It's really nice,
like because we're all distributed around the world, we don't often bump into each other.
I mean, I see Martin fairly often, but I don't get to see many other people I work with and
certainly not many of the community people from around the world. So it's really good.
Just with every other distro, it's nice to get together and see the people who help make
your distro rock.
Where was it, Poppy?
It was in a town called Essen in Germany, and the community guys in Germany organized
the whole thing. We gave them help and there was some community funding from Ubuntu users
who've donated money to the project. We used some of that money to help fund the project
and they also had some sponsors. And yeah, it was in a place called Unperfect House,
which is a bizarre building, which is excellent. Lots of little tiny rooms and a couple of
big rooms and loads of art spaces and creative types.
It's just in a bar, a couple of bars.
I would imagine if this is a community-driven event, it's not like policies not being set,
future project directions aren't being set. So what is – is it a get-together just of
people where they trade stories or is there any kind of community action that develops
here? What happens here?
So the structure is there's a bunch of talks, one-hour slot talks, and anyone could submit
a talk and there's – Jane Silber, our CEO, did a keynote and one of the guys from
the IoT team gave a talk about Ubuntu IoT. There was someone from Microsoft there talking
about Bash on Ubuntu on Windows.
There were people talking about how to contribute in the community, talking about how to improve
the desktop. It was all kinds of stuff, like a diverse range of subjects. You pick a subject
and you submit it as a talk and it got on the track. We had like two or three tracks
and so sometimes there were clashes and you couldn't go to everything and other times
there was only one talk on so you get a good attendance at those kind of talks.
So it was really like a pure community bunch of talks but then there was also corridor
communication – corridor conversations like you get at any kind of event and conversations
over beer in the evening and why don't we do this and kind of brainstorming ideas of
how we can improve things and then towards the end there were discussions of what the
next Dubicon would be, where that might be in the world and which part of the community
is going to organize that.
Yeah, it was really great. I massively enjoyed it. It far exceeded my expectations for a
community event.
Hmm. So Wimpy, I wanted to ask you what it was like to go because you have, I would imagine,
a now newer, fresher perspective but is this the first kind of event like this you've
gone to Wimpy or have you gone to a few of these?
This is the first Ubicon Europe that's ever taken place but there have been other regional
Ubicons but this is the first one that I've attended.
Does it feel different going now as a canonical employee, somebody who now is kind of more
well known in the community?
Well not really. So obviously it was good that I knew – there was probably over the
course of the weekend about six or eight canonical people who were employees who were at the
event and it was good that I knew who all of those people were because I've now met
them at a couple of events earlier in the year but by and large the people in the community
who knew me or knew of me knew me because of Ubuntu Mate, not because of the fact that
I'm a canonical employee.
I thought for sure you were going to say Linux Unplugged.
Well actually, no. I did. When I sat down for dinner on Saturday night –
And they heard your voice.
Yeah, exactly. I joined a table of people I didn't know and joined in the conversation
and then somebody said, I know your voice and it was from Linux Unplugged. So I quickly
pointed them Ubuntu podcast to set them in the right direction.
Good man.
Yeah, isn't that funny? It's funny how many people I meet, once they hear me speak,
and then they realize, oh I know that voice. And it is very – so that's always how it
goes down. So what did you think? What did you take away from UbuCon Wimpy and what did
you take away, not only as an employee of Canonical, but as somebody who might be looking
at what users want and how you could tweak your project?
So it was one of the best sort of floss, open-sourcy conferences I've ever attended. As Papi said,
the quality of the talks was high, it was extremely well organized, the venue was excellent,
and the social events that happened on the Friday and Saturday were also really good
fun. So there was a lot to like about it. Made loads of new friends, people who I've
had sort of passing online acquaintances with over several years, actually getting to meet
those people in person and shake their hand. And in some cases, I tried to buy people beer,
but I had more beers bought for me than I got to buy for other people.
That's true sometimes.
So it was a very friendly – that was the other thing, it was a very friendly group
of people, it was really good fun. There was no awkwardness at all, it was terrific. And
we recorded a mashup podcast whilst we were there, from a few of the European Ubuntu podcasts,
got together and did a mashup recording. So I thoroughly enjoyed it. And one of the guys
there even made a – took a bottle of Club Marte and adapted it into the official Ubuntu
Marte beverage, which was very good of him. So there was all sorts of silliness and good
fun.
Very good. Very good. First of all, I feel like we should do some mashup podcasting,
but you guys got to make the long trek over here. So I know it's like asking a lot.
Or you could come over here, because there's one of you and there's several of us.
One of the conversations that's kicked off immediately after that Ubicon was the next
Ubicon at scale next year. So that could happen.
See I'm still on the fence about scale and now you're making me want to go. I mean,
that would be a thing if I knew for sure you guys – if I knew for sure you were going
to be there, then maybe that might be a game changer.
I'll try and bring my nice smell.
I happen to know why his poppy smells so good at these conventions, because when he arrives
at the airport, before he boards the aircraft, he goes into the men's smellies department
and gets himself all new nice smelling things.
It's the freebies, dude. It's all the freebies you get in there.
Wimpy, you'll be happy to know that I was literally crawling all over MeetBSD. I should
send you this photo. Maybe I will later after the show. I crawled up onto a speaker that
was set up to rebroadcast what the person at the booth was saying, and I mounted my
camera to the top of the speaker because I wanted a shot of the person giving the presentation.
I'm like, I'm stretched all the way out reaching to the speaker and right there in
front of the entire BSD crowd is me wearing my Ubuntu Mate jacket.
Nicely done. Nicely done.
So I was repping while I was down there, and it was fun.
So I did some brand promotion whilst I was there as well. So when I arrived on the Friday,
I had all of my Ubuntu Mate stuff on. And then on the Saturday, I wore the System AU
podcast shirt that I won recently from a competition on their podcast.
Nice. Oh, well, that sounds like a good time. Now I've got to think seriously about – Wes,
what do you think about scale? How would that work? Could you get like the work –
Yeah, sure.
Could they?
I mean, if – well, I don't know. I'd have to ask. But I could investigate.
Well, you could totally –
But I might even just go if it's –
You could totally, if you wanted to, you could ride down in Lady Joops with us.
Oh.
If I go.
See, this sounds like a lot of fun.
See, I got really lucky on this last trip because I got to camp in the campus parking
lot.
That is slick.
So that made it much more doable. I don't know if I could be that lucky with scale,
but that was – so you could ride down with us if you go.
Okay. Well, then we've got to start thinking about this.
You think about that.
I assume you're planning on doing Linux Fest Northwest next year as well.
Yeah, of course. Are you?
No. Well, I was hoping to make it this year, but events escalated so that didn't happen.
But yeah, I would like to come out. I think it's May. I was looking at the dates the
other day.
Yeah, it is. They just changed it, actually. I mean, they changed it from what it has been
previously. Yeah. So Linux Fest Northwest 2017 is going to be May 6th and the 7th.
And you know, I think this thing gets nearly now 2,200 participants.
Yeah.
Isn't that awesome?
I mean, that's a serious scale. I mean, that is –
That's quite something, isn't it?
That's a real –
A real wordplay.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
And it's a serious event. So I do think it is worth more and more time for people that
maybe haven't gone in the past. Is it –
Yeah. So yeah, I'm considering going to Linux Fest Northwest. And you know, that main
C mod, you know, fly all that way to go to a weekend event from Europe. But there were
people at UbuCon Europe from the US who traveled there. So Elizabeth Joseph come back was there
for the weekend. And Nathan Haynes, one of the community contributors, was there as well.
But there's another guy in the community called Jose. He lives in Lima in Peru. And
he traveled all the way from Peru to Germany for the weekend and was flying back to get
back to university in time for class on the Tuesday. It's just like mental. So there's
some really committed fans out there.
Dedication.
If you're able to make it out here for Linux Fest Northwest, schedule an extra day.
Yeah.
And I'll take you to just a couple of spots in the Pacific Northwest that I would – I
will promise you are some of the most beautiful sights you will see in the world as long as
the weather is cooperating. I mean, they are truly gorgeous. If you have an extra day,
I'll take you on a personal tour.
Lovely. I'll see what I can do.
So let's talk about really quickly before we move on because there's so much stuff
to talk about this week. We should probably pick it up. I want to talk about GM Vault,
both a tool that Wes and I found this week that allows you to back up and restore your
Gmail account. Yeah, your Gmail account. It's a tool for backing up your Gmail account and
never lose any email correspondence. What a nice thing to have, a little piece of mind
when you're using Gmail. And just as Wes likes it, just as Mr. Richard Stallman likes
it.
I've never installed GNU slash Linux.
It is GNU AGPL 3.0 license. You can find it at gmvault.org. And it's super easy to set
up and it backs up your entire freaking Google account. So what were you thinking when you
found this one?
Well, I just got myself a pixel. So I'm more involved than ever in the Google ecosystem.
You know, I heard about them. I think they reversed that decision, but there's some issues
with people pre-ordering pixels and then selling them.
Let's talk about it. Let's talk about that. And do you have your pixel here?
I do.
Hold it. Hold it. Don't let me see it yet. Oh, my God. I have been looking forward to
trying a pixel. I cannot wait. This is going to be my first hands-on with a pixel. And
Wes, how long have you had it, Wes?
I got it last Wednesday.
Oh, we're going to... Basically, you've had it for six days. We're going to hear your
thoughts about it and all of it. So we'll have a link to gmvault. But let's take a moment
and let's thank Ting because, geez, this is pretty time-appropriate, right?
It sure is.
Linux.ting.com, Linux.ting.com, Linux.ting.com is where you go to get $25 off your first
device or $25 in service credit if you bring a device.
Yeah, they got CDMA and GSM Networks, so check their BYOD page and you just might be able
to bring a device. Ting is mobile that makes sense. They take your minutes, your messages,
and your megabytes. They add them all up and whatever you use, that's what you pay. It's
$6 just for the line itself. Think about that for a second. One line is six bucks a month
than your usage. Two lines is another $6. Three lines, another $6. If you're a small
business like me, that is so economical. Plus, if you got Wi-Fi at your office, that means
if you're doing Ting for your business and you have Wi-Fi at your office, when your staff
are at the office, they're not using Ting because they're on Wi-Fi. Just use a messenger,
use some VoIP and you're done. And you're not paying for anything but the line except
for when they're on the road because when they got home, they got Wi-Fi too. Also, obviously
if you're an individual, this works for you as well. I love this. They got all these great
devices you can choose from, from the bare SIM to feature phones all the way up to the
latest and greatest. So check them out at linux.ting.com and a big thanks to Ting for
sponsoring the Unplugged program. linux.ting.com. Okay, I'm going to have to, you know what?
Hold on really quick. Oracle bought DYN. That's what we were going to talk about. Instead,
let's talk about, can I see it? Yeah, sure. Can I see it? Alright, I'm going to turn the
camera on because this is super special. This is very important to Chris. So if you're watching
the video version, this is Chris' first. Ignore all the Jupiter broadcasting presence right
there. That's for another thing I'm recording at another time. Just ignore it. Oh, let me
see it. Oh, okay. Oh yeah. That's nice. Yeah, it has a very pleasant hand feel. It's much
lighter than I expected. It's much lighter than I expected. I definitely think that weird
two-tone, that's weird. It even feels weird. The two differences there. Oh yeah, like the
glass and then the metal. So this backside, it has that weird angle. Alright, alright.
So it's kind of wedge shaped in general, if you notice. This is nice though. Yeah, I like
it. I like it. It feels good on the table like I expected. One thing I noticed is the
power button has like a ribbing cross hatch on it, which is helpful when you're pressing
it. Yeah, kind of like the 6P had that. The 6P had that too. Yeah, these buttons feel
very much like the 6P, only this feels, this feels in the hand a lot like the 6P but half
the size, width-wise. Yeah, right. It feels exactly like the 6P with those buttons there.
And I got the Pixel, not the XL, just to be clear, audience. Good size. Yeah, I love it.
It's perfect. So how's the camera? How are you liking all that kind of stuff? I haven't
taken too many pictures yet, but it's fast. It's way faster than any other Android camera
that I've seen. I mean, the app still takes like a second to start up, but here, if you
want to play with it. Oh, you unlock it for me. There you go. Have at it, sir. The new
launcher looks exactly like the old launcher, but that, except for the search thing smaller.
Is there anything else? The search thing smaller, you can like swipe up to get all of your apps.
It has Google's Assistant down at the bottom if you'd like to play with it. Have you used
that much, the Assistant? A few things, like I mean, I've had it set alarms or tell me
the hours of a restaurant. Feels fast. Yeah, no, it does feel fast. It's probably the fastest
Android phone I've had or used personally for very long, so I'm pretty pleased with
the performance so far. So, yeah, gosh, the screen looks great, man. I know. The camera
feels very fast. I would say it feels as fast as the iPhone. Yeah, you know, I haven't used
the iPhone that much, but my wife switched to this phone as well from an iPhone 6, and
so far I think she likes it a lot. I'll have to get more reviews. How's the battery? Battery
life has been great. I'm charging it like once a day-ish, but kind of randomly whenever,
and it does charge as fast as advertised, so I don't really worry about charging anymore,
which has been very pleasant. I don't yet have a lot of the USB gadgets in my life,
but I do have some coworkers with USB phones, so it's nice knowing, too, like we can charge
each other's phones. Oh, yeah, yeah, for sure. USB-C does seem like the way to feature. And
I've already fallen in love with not having to, you know, find which way my damn USB cord
is oriented. Yeah. That's just worth it all by itself. It looks like you get about 12,
13 hours looking at your battery stats. It looks like you get about 12, 13 hours of battery
life, which is pretty solid. How's the audio quality? Like listening to podcasts on the
speakers built in, how's that? Pretty good, actually, and loud, surprisingly loud. For
a while I was having a Bluetooth issue, which is no longer the case, so I was just listening
to it with a speaker. With your 5X, you mean, or what do you mean when you were having a
Bluetooth issue? No, when I first installed this phone, before I updated or anything,
it was more just like it wasn't connecting to my Bose wireless speaker. Oh, I love the
Bose wireless speaker. That's a great speaker. So for a little bit, just for that day, while
it was like, that was the first day I had it, I was just listening to the speaker, and
it was like I could shower and listen to a podcast from the phone, so it was pretty loud.
So have you used like the voice dictation, like the, I don't want to say it, but like
the, where you can say, okay, Googs, have you been using that? Yeah, a little bit. I
mean, it works pretty well. Have you tried it like across the room? No, I have not. Okay,
let's do it right now. Let's do it. Okay, so I've just turned off your screen. I've
turned off your screen. Now you, you attempt to invoke it. Okay, Google. Oh, yeah, it lit
up. You got it. You got it. You got it. Good. Okay. Now let me try it. It knows me. Let
me try it. Okay. Okay, Google. It didn't do it. Now let's mumble try, mumble try. No,
I can't hear. Okay, now let's try it on the iPhone. Okay. Oh, yeah. There you go. So I'll
unmute it just for this. Hey, Siri. Okay, so now you try doing a Hey, Siri. Hey, Siri.
Ah, okay. So I found it. It works. That little bit of security is nice. So what do you think
overall? You really happy with the purchase? You regret it? I mean, obviously you saw the
state of my old five. Yeah, it was terrible. I needed a phone. I was waiting for Google's
next phone. Just, I mean, I like stock Android. I like that I'm getting updates now. It feels
good in the hand. Yeah, it feels really nice. It's nice on the table. I need to get a case
or at least a screen protector. I'm kind of running dangerous right now. But it's beautiful.
I love feeling it. I also went with right now I'm using Google's five the wireless service.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. How's five? That was it was crazy easy to set up. Like it was I already
had the number I wanted on Google Voice. And so you really just like you did the no going
back switch. Yeah, there's no they warn you there's no going back once you do this. You
can in some cases and you can port away your number. How can that be? But you have to no
longer you can either use one or the other. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. And that's fine. Because
I was mostly using Google Voice to forward to my carrier. So if I can just have that
number on my carrier, then yeah, and I get all the features and it has visual voicemail
and such. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I'm actually an active five subscriber. Oh, there we go. Yeah.
I find it to be totally underwhelming and not that compelling at all and a big disappointment.
But that's my personal experience. I've only just started. I just thought it was a because
I had it on Google Voice. It was so simple to get started. I was very like I clicked
a few things and then suddenly my phone worked. You know, so I might have broken you accidentally
because just if you want to subscribe to Google Fi and I bet a lot of I bet they're getting
a lot of subscribers with the pixel. Don't install the apps from the Play Store that
tell you how it's using the networks because what you will discover is that Google is calculating
their cost as well when they choose which networks you go on. I believe that it's not
just your pure which one's going to be better for speed and signal. And once you realize
that they're making that calculation and they sometimes put you on a slower network just
because it saves them money. It's super frustrating. I can totally see you being frustrated with
that. Yeah. Well, I'll have to I'll have to test this out and see you home. I see what
I see how it works. Yeah. The idea is nice. And it's one of the other things is nice about
Fi. If you're OK with giving Google all of the things every last thing. One of the nice
things about Fi is like glass for a short period of time and other things. It's a part
of Google's hyper focus right now where they actually give a share a little. Yeah. Yeah.
And so they actually help you and they have good customer service. And so if you're ever
going to use a Google product where they take all of the things it's the one to use. That's
what I figured. I mean, I don't know that I'll stay long term right. I already have
seen a Ting SIM cards laying around. I just thought, you know, this is the first phone
eligible. I'll give it a shot. See what it is. And it's an interesting idea. And also
it's another way to give the middle finger to the carriers. Yeah. Right. Totally. I like
it from there. But you'll have to hear more. I'll I'll use it. You know, give it a couple
of months use and check back in. There is a do you hear that there's a check going being
bombed right now. I am not joking when I say there is an extremely high probability that
it is Paul Allen. So Paul Allen, I had a client that shares warehouse space with Paul Allen
here at the Arlington Airport. Oh, interesting. So the studio is a stone's throw away from
the Arlington Airport. And Paul Allen has a jet from like the Vietnam War era that he
just bought to just like, you know, I feel like, you know, like how some of us might
buy like a go kart or a or I don't know something like a bike, like a mountain bike. You just,
you know, pick up a jet. Paul Allen buys like a World War Two or Vietnam era jet and he
stores it. And this is this is all 100 percent true. He stores it here at the Arlington Airport.
And I don't even know if I'm supposed to tell you this because my client had to sign an
NDA. However, I did not sign an NDA. But so a section of my client's warehouse was fenced
off with a chain link fence with a door in it and a bolt. And in this chain link fence
section was Paul Allen's personal toy fighter jet. Wow. That he takes here at the Arlington
Airport and flies around like a maniac. So we may be being bombed by Paul Allen. OK.
Yeah. No. Thank you, Chris. So that's that it could be who we're hearing right now. That
is actually legitimately true. Also, you know what else is ops? Absolutely 100 percent true.
Those crazy Russians over at Kaspersky apparently have their own operating system. Did you know
this? Yeah. Isn't this nuts? Kaspersky OS is very excited. They say it's designed for
networks with extreme requirements for data security for like layer three switches. They
say it's got a microkernel architecture and they give the middle finger to Linux. They
say, yeah, I know what you're thinking. It's not even the slightest quote unquote smell
of Linux. All the popular operating systems are not designed with security in mind. We
could do better. So it's simpler and safer to just start from the ground up. This sounds
like Ikey. Doesn't that sound like Ikey? It sure does. Yeah. And that was just exactly
what they did. I tease. I tease. But really, yes. So Kaspersky has their own OS because
nobody else could do it better, they say. Is the source available or are they keeping
it closed and you have to buy it? Oh, that's the first comment on the story, by the way.
The very first comment. Good job, Wes. Look at that. Look, are you going to put the source
on GitHub? It's right there. Oh, OK. No, it's not the first comment anymore. OK. It was
when I read it. Full disclosure, it was when I read it. But yeah, that is Kaspersky OS.
What a pile of horse shit. I'm so sick of people creating their own encryption telegram.
I am so sick of people creating their own operating systems. Kaspersky, just give me
a break. Yeah, wait till they have to update it. Exactly. I just. Yeah, I wonder if we'll
see any. Would you have any confidence deploying this at your business? No. You would not do
it. It's just it's so ridiculous. I mean, there would need to be some at least some
really good reviews. And then I mean, I don't have to be wanting to buy a proprietary replacement
for these types of things anyway. I don't see it happening. You hear that yet? That's
Paul Allen. I tell you. Get out of here. You know how you know? You know how you know?
Because if it was an actual jet with a purpose that was here to do something, they'd be flying
it. The fact that that son of a bitch is circling, hanging out, having a nice day. This is Paul
Allen. It is beautiful here in the Pacific Northwest. The mountains are out. Yeah, you
know, Allen Jude on TechSnap totally destroyed LastPass for me. I was pretty fired up about
LastPass. No synchronization required, open source. And then he's like, well, this, this
and that. And he had a he made a lot of good points. So now, now I'm getting all fired
up about Bitwarden. You're back on. Well, this is really Mr. Tennell here. He produced
the last week's Linux Unplugged. Oh, yeah. All right. Oh, all right. Let's talk about
Mr. Tennell right now. Mr. Producer Michael Tennell, a.k.a. Rotten Corpse, last week produced
Linux Unplugged for Noah and he did a damn good job. Damn good job. So as a as a as sort
of a nod and a thank you to both him and Noah for filling into last week's episode, I wanted
to cover something that he's kind of excited about. And that's Bitwarden. And Bitwarden
is an open source, cross-platform password manager. And it's on Kickstarter. Hundreds
of accounts online, websites, apps, email, work. Yeah. You keep up with all those passwords.
I don't know. Most of us just end up reusing the same passwords everywhere. Because you
tried to be smart. You're constantly battling with forgot password resets. Yeah, because
LastPass isn't a thing. Security breaches happen online every day. Right. Your usernames
and passwords are stolen by hackers that can end up ruining your life. I trust this guy
because he has a Sammy beard. He has a gray shirt and three monitors. They are nicely
set up there. Yeah, I would like the desk. Yeah, although he does seem to be running
Windows. Whenever you reuse the same passwords everywhere, you're inviting those hackers
into all your accounts. That's right. Using strong, unique passwords for every service
you use online is essential, but seemingly impossible. That's why we created Bitwarden.
Bitwarden is a password management application that keeps you safe online. Bitwarden automatically
generates unique, secure passwords for all of your accounts. Next time you go to log
in, Bitwarden will automatically fill in your login information for you. It's that simple.
That did not look automatic. It looked like he clicked that. Okay, so 155 backers, they've
raised $3,000 of $49,000 goal. Forty days left to go. Michael, how is this even interesting
at all to you? What is interesting about this? I mean, I put it in here, but I mean, really,
what is it? Because this sounds super generic to me. Going once. Uh-oh, did he leave? Wes,
is he in there? That bastard, you know. Ladies and gentlemen. Running away. Ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to introduce you to Linux Unplugged, the only weekly Linux podcast with as many
listeners where we just toss it to people that don't even exist. So we're just. It's
unplugged people. That's why we call it that. Now you know. So since he's not here to defend
it, I'm going to assume what he was going to say is, well, Chris, I just don't like
log me in and I don't like LastPass because log me in. So therefore I'm willing to throw
my money at anything. I think that's probably what he was going to say. That's probably.
It does seem to be open source. Rekai just cut all of that from the show. Let's just
cut all of that. We tried. No, leave it in Rekai, leave it in. That's the kind of thing
that people that podcast five years ago did. That's not what we do now. You got between
Chris has standards now between Paul Allen and Rotten Corps. I just this whole episode
is ruined. It's whole, it's whole rune. Let's talk about $15 production. Kubernetes clusters
on digital ocean. That's kind of interesting. Wes, can you explain to me what Kubernetes
are? Because it sounds like they're delicious, tasty morsels that does. It does look like
that, right? Kubernetes is an orchestration layer for running containers. It provides
you like a bunch of abstractions so you can have pods and sets of things so that you can
be like, I need this number of containers running this service that usually microservices
that you're putting in containers. And then you can kind of abstract away your hardware.
You install a bunch of these on different hardware right now, usually on cloud boxes,
but you can have it on bare metal as well. And then this provides you a bunch of ways
you can kind of schedule things. You can make sure services are running. It'll automatically
restart things or auto scale as needed with traffic. It's kind of provides you a whole
production environment. So they handle secret management as well and provide key value stores
for different configurations per environment, that sort of stuff. So it's one of those,
you only need this stuff when you're really running something big, but that makes it kind
of hard to learn. So if you're installing a big infrastructure, there's a lot of things
you might not do if you had a small infrastructure. But if you work in a big environment, you
probably need to learn those things anyway. So they have something called Minikube where
you can run it in a VM on your desktop. But I just thought this was kind of neat. It's
not something to ever do for production or run it. He didn't need to do this for his
end goal. It was just kind of an example of like, here's if you wanted to mock up what
you might do at real scale on cheap digital ocean hardware, which is really easy to get.
Using $5. Yeah, you can spin it up, use it, test it, play with it, spin it down, practice
your configuration management. So I just thought that was cool.
Poby, can you help me with official pronunciation before we move on?
I don't care how you say it, but everyone else says it Kubernetes.
Kubernetes.
Yeah.
I feel like it doesn't sound as delicious when you add the Netties part. Now it sounds
like something I put in my nose, not something I put in my mouth. But Kubernetes.
How would you say it in a way that you don't want to eat it?
Kubernetes.
Yeah, that sounds like a cookie. Yeah, Kubernetes sounds like a delicious cookie with cream
in the middle.
Right.
I think this header image has biased everyone for the whole thing. Chris will never think
of this as related to cookies.
Well, why don't we take a moment right now, since we just mentioned DigitalOcean, let's
talk about DigitalOcean. They are our next sponsor here on the Unplugged program. DigitalOcean.com
and use our promo code DOUNPLUGED, that's one word, and get a $10 credit over at DigitalOcean.com.
It's interesting, at $5 a month for a droplet, you can play with things like Kubernetes.
It makes it really easy to do things. You can spin up a whole bunch if you're only going
to use them for an hour. I like that flexibility.
Also, if you're maybe doing a new release of a project and you want to spin up a little
additional capacity, DigitalOcean is some of the infrastructure behind some of our favorite
open source projects out there, and it makes sense. At $5 a month, you can get a pretty
great machine, or at just a few cents an hour, you can get a fantastic machine. It really
just depends on how you want to set it up. They have a fantastic interface to wrap it
all up and put it together, and they have an API that's so simple and so straightforward
that there's been tons of great open source code written to take advantage of it.
Go to DigitalOcean.com and just start working. Use our promo code DOUNPLUGED, get a $10 credit,
and run it for a while. $5 a droplet gets you two months for free. Woo-hoo. DigitalOcean.com,
use our promo code DOUNPLUGED, Ubuntu, Fedora, FreeBSD, Debian, CoreOS. They got data centers
all over the world. Just give it a try. DigitalOcean.com. In fact, speaking of the Fedora 25 release
anyway, I think I went from Fedora 23 to 24 on DigitalOcean Droplet, running MB, using
Fedora Cloud, and then using... I can't remember what the name of the web interface was, but
I managed to deploy an MB...
Cockpit?
What?
Cockpit? Is that the one?
Yep. Cockpit. Yep. Thank you, Wes. I used Cockpit to deploy an MB image, and then that
was on a DigitalOcean Droplet, and then I upgraded that from 23 to 24 without a problem.
Look at you in the cloud, Chris.
DigitalOcean.com, use the promo code DOUNPLUGED, and a big thank you to DigitalOcean for
sponsoring.
DOUNPLUGED.
I want to talk about something that's really bothering me, and I want to get there via
the Oryx Pro. Wes, I feel like what's happened in the phone industry is happening in the
personal computer industry. The single vendor, single platform, single... I design the software.
I design the hardware, and I put it all together.
Spoke.
Yeah. Microsoft is doing this now with the Surface Studio, the Surface Book, the Surface
Pro. Apple is doing this now with the Mac OS in a way they never have before with the
Touch Bar. It's becoming less and less Linux compatible, more so than ever. Every single
vendor that has a major stake in this is often... Even if it's Android, it's their own variant,
like Samsung.
Yep, running custom software. Yep.
They're creating these bespoke, siloed, monolithic platforms that are less and less general computing
platforms and less and less Linux compatible. You can often get it to work, but like with
the Surface, it only works great on a couple of versions of them. There's a couple of hurdles
you have to go through, or like on the MacBook, it works pretty good, especially if you do
this and you install this patch set against your Linux kernel, then you're really in a
pretty good position. We have these stories, even for Chromebooks. Yeah, you can get it
to work pretty good, especially if you buy this Chromebook and you do this thing to the
bootloader or you remove this screw.
Just make sure you don't forget to push the thing or you delete your thing.
This is becoming more and more commonplace, especially as general purpose vendors have
less and less incentive to be in the PC business. As the x86 platform is making less and less
money for people, they're just going off and making their own products, these narrow, siloed
products.
So I want to talk about that and how I feel like that's a particular bad, bad, bad precedence
for Linux. First, I want to let Paul Allen buzz the studio.
He's having a great time.
Paul Allen's having a good time. I'm good. I'm really glad.
As long as one of us is.
But en route to get there, I wanted to first talk about System76. They have the Oryx Pro.
They've recently revved to 4K. Now, I've experimented a bit. I've got one of the Dell machines.
It's like a Sputnik edition that has a 4K monitor. And I found that there's some rough
edges, but overall not too bad.
And so when System76 announced the Oryx Pro with a 4K screen, they did it in a way that
was sort of more intriguing than average, because they said, we also made some tweaks.
We made some changes. We made some patches. We've sent these upstream to make 4K Linux
even better.
And I thought this would be an interesting way to discuss this, because System76 is one
of the few vendors in the general x86 platform space that is all in on Linux.
Now, there's others. I just mentioned earlier, like you're working on my Apollo Entraware
right there. There's Zarr Reason. There's Dell, like I said, just a second ago, ships
a Linux machine.
There's other vendors in the space. So it's not like the oxygen has been sucked out of
the room, but it definitely feels like when I climb up a hill, I'm starting to hyperventilate
a bit.
And so I thought maybe we could segue into this discussion, because Ryan, Mr. Ryan Sipes,
has joined us from System76. And I think he has a few insights in the new Oryx Pro. So
Ryan, welcome back to the Unplugged program, sir.
Hey, I'm happy to be back.
So Mr. Sipes, what's the lowdown on this new Oryx Pro? Rumor has it there may have been
a few tweaks. And I'm wondering, when System76 started to go 4K, did they find like everything
just worked great out of the box? Or is this one of those things where you kind of have
to ship a custom image to make everything work? And what led you from point A to point
B? Go for it.
So we are really, really focused on producing a good product that feels good from the ground
up. And one thing that prevented us from shipping 4K earlier was we just didn't feel like it
was a very solid experience. Some people have not had a bad experience, but I've heard a
lot of folks who, you know, purchase like the Sputnik and they're like, well, if you
just run stock Ubuntu, there are a lot of problems and it's not really the best experience.
And so we were kind of waiting for Ubuntu and Unity to really have excellent 4K support
before we shipped. And ultimately, we kept testing it, you know, once every week or every
other week. And then finally, we realized, hey, this isn't so bad. We could probably
send some patches upstream and work with some developers over at Canonical and Ubuntu in
the Ubuntu community and really make it a very nice experience. And so we started working
on that. And yeah, I've got a list of things that we did and I'd like to share that with
your group here.
Yeah, because I'm curious, Ryan, you know, my experience with Ubuntu out of the box is
it's not aware that I'm on a high DPI display, but I can go in there, I can drag that little
scaling slider up a bit and the launcher looks better and, you know, stuff generally looks
like it renders better. So I'm assuming what you guys did was more than just by default
set that DPI scaler to higher.
Yeah, that's one of the changes that we made. And we do that through our driver that ships
with every machine. But we also have been working with Unity developers and I have to
give a shout out to our engineers, both Jason Drozd and really David Jordan, who I think
you may have shared a video of him once when talking about System76 on one of your podcasts,
but he's been doing the lion's share of the work on making adjustments and making patches
to make this all really a great experience. And then Cassidy, who is part of the elementary
team, he's our web developer. He's actually the guy who's been pushing really hard for
4K, for us to ship a 4K machine for a while now.
Good man.
Shout out to Cassidy.
And he has done a ton of testing as well. And him and David have both filed lots of
bug reports as well as sent patches where they could. So I know David's been working
with some of the Unity developers to get proper high DPI scaling support into Unity and the
Unity settings daemon. And he also went ahead and set the scaling in our driver. So if somebody
gets one of our machines, it's all out of the box. It's already got the proper scaling.
We also set the console fonts on the virtual terminal so that it's the proper size out
of the box.
Yeah, for sure. Nice touch.
We also have been filing bugs against applications that are used on Ubuntu but aren't quite
perfect because of the toolkit that they use. And so, for instance, GIMP with the scaling
settings looks OK. But really, a lot of these applications, not just GIMP, could use, like
if they're GTK2 apps, if they're ported to GTK3, they have much better support for high
DPI displays. And so we've been trying to work with those projects and file bug reports
to say, like, hey, this is something that you guys should be thinking about.
And then we've also been identifying the issues and documenting them along with known solutions
or workarounds. So one of those things we documented was where to get a high DPI theme
for GIMP. And we're going to be releasing that in a blog post and then also a support
doc for anybody out there who's using a high DPI display to take advantage of. And it will
just have a ton of resources for how to change settings so that they better support high
DPI or, in the case of things like GIMP and other projects, like where maybe to download
a high DPI theme or something like that.
And then finally, we're talking about back porting the default theme in 16.10 to 16.04
because it's a little bit crisper and it just looks better in high DPI. And we still ship
machines with the LTS. So we think that people would appreciate that.
Ryan, what's your sense of the conflict between creating a product that is unique and stands
out? So in this case, high resolution display, maybe better battery life, things that you
want – you guys want to ship as a company, as a product. How much discussion happens
internally from – well, what can we break off as our own driver, PPA and package? And
we're just going to say this is what we're going to deviate from the norm, from the Ubuntu
base. And how much does trying to stick to the Ubuntu base weigh on you when System76
is making a decision? Because what I'm hearing a little bit and I think this is perfectly
understandable is in order to make a standout competitive product, System76 is having to
go more off into the weeds a bit and do some of their own engineering, do some of their
own presets, configure some of these things out of the box that are forking a bit from
the Ubuntu defaults and probably forking in a way – not forking is the right way, but
deviating in a way that makes for a better product. How much of a line is that to walk
internally? Do you have a sense of that?
So we always do that to some extent. And also, unlike other vendors that are shipping computers,
we are shipping an open source operating system. So there's some onus on us to contribute
where we can. The thing is, it would be nice to see maybe more on the part of people reaching
out to vendors like us and maybe helping to plan around a release. And this goes for Sputnik
as well. I'm not sure how often the Dell team over there talks to Canonical or the
Ubuntu community. But when working on this release, it would be nice to have maybe some
more communication. But I guess that could be achieved via the community route. And often
times with this, we didn't want to be really loud about it in the community and raise a
bunch of issues on behalf of System76 for the 4K high DPI product because we were worried
about running into serious issues and not being able to ship it, but having gotten people's
hopes up. But at the same time, I guess to answer your question, there's a lot of onus
that fell on us with this product. But we couldn't have shipped anything else because
of our dedication to not shipping a substandard product. And we wanted to make sure that high
DPI support was really solid before we shipped it out.
I have heard from probably 50 different listeners that said, yeah, a system that I can put five
terabytes of storage in and get 4K display. I'm going to buy that. I look at that and
I go, as long as all of the applications you need are available under Linux, there's really
no reason that that wouldn't work as a serious workhorse. That's a nice machine.
I think for myself, I don't want to classify myself or label myself as a particular thing,
but when I look at buying a laptop to run Linux, I could really give two shits about
the out-of-the-box experience of the installed OS because if it's going to be Ubuntu Unity,
I'm likely going to be reloading anyways to Arch and Gnome 3.
And so I really want fantastic hardware for me to get my work done. And I really think
that this is probably one of the best machines out there. I haven't tried the 4K orcs. I
would love to get my hands on it and try it because I am a high DPI Linux skeptic. I believe
it on some platforms, on some desktops, and on others, I'm a total skeptic.
So I think that's one of the things that's really tricky about 4K under Linux is it absolutely
depends on your implementation. If you think you're going to go run XFCE under 4K, screw
you. Don't talk to me. I don't want to hear it. You're off on your own. I know it can
be done your own. Yeah. Fine. You know what? Put your glasses on and squint. Fine. But
it really is going to depend on your implementation. So that's why I'm curious about some of the
tweaks System76 has made. I'm curious about people that end up with a 4K orcs and load
GNOME 3 on there, something GTK 3.22 with beautiful high DPI support. I got an email
a couple of days ago from somebody that said Linux high DPI support is a disaster. It is
just totally unbaked. It is unusable. And I was reading it on a machine that's high
DPI that I've literally had zero high DPI issues. I have a MacBook Retina 15-inch that
you set up right here live on this show, running Arch with GNOME 3.22 right now, all high DPI
and no problems. Really, anything that's GTK just looks great. It just looks better than
Mac OS looks on the same hardware. It really honestly does. And I just absolutely just
looks better. It looks so good. And I'm reading this guy's email where he tells me how high
DPI support totally doesn't work under Linux. Well, yeah, you're using XFCE. Yeah, exactly.
That's what you should expect right now. I'm sorry. So the implementation really, really
matters.
And sometimes even the programs you end up using and what tool could they use.
I think the majority of our audience just needs access to very powerful hardware with
great resolution screens. And they will figure out if they want to run Unity with the System
76 package installed, or if they want to run GNOME 3, or if they want to run Plasma 5 or
Unity. It's just a great machine, I suspect.
And I mean, it's something to think if more people have access to 4K hardware, can start
figuring things out, helping the community figure out what we need to do better.
And like I said, we're going to release a blog post that has some of the things that
we've noticed still kind of suck under 4K. And I'm hoping that the hive mind here can
help out those people working on those projects, or at least file bugs when they get their
hands on, for instance, the 4K orcs.
There are some things about the orcs that I want to share because I work for the company
and it's...
I would love to take this time to use my 10 minutes of fame to put a bug in their ear.
So one thing that we heard a lot during the MacBook Pro blow up was, why aren't you shipping
a 4K device? And we are now shipping a 4K device. And it has 3.1 million more pixels
than the MacBook Pro Retina.
Whoa.
The Oryx Pro, a lot of people talk about its size. Well, that's what you get when you put
a desktop grade GPU in a laptop. And I would love to see somebody use some of the same
applications side by side on a MacBook Pro and the Oryx and tell me which one they want
to use for their day-to-day work on accomplishing big boy stuff.
Ryan, how many times do you guys get questions asking if they can be hackintoshed? Because
I've probably gotten about 35 emails asking if the Oryx Pro can be hackintoshed. You guys
get that? You know? I get that a lot. And they're not going to not run Linux.
They just want all three of that triple-boot goodness.
I would tell you my semi-educated guess would be, ain't going to work because the GTX 10
graphics card... There's no Mac that ships with good graphics, so you're kind of in luck
there.
Yeah, I get that question quite a lot. But one thing I will say that I'm hoping that
all of Linux will benefit from is recently we started working pretty closely with a couple
guys over at Nvidia. And we have a direct line to them now, and we've used that relationship
to improve people's experience on using Nvidia and say, like, hey, this is a problem, and
talk about things that need to be patched.
I say that to encourage people to, if you can, don't throw Mac OS on this beautiful
machine. Run Linux on it, and we're making sure that the hardware just works out of the
box and is a great experience. And there's other stuff coming down the pike that I think
people using these machines will really appreciate. And so give us a shot. We put a lot of blood,
sweat and tears into this release specifically, and we'd love to have this set the standard
for what a 4K device can be with Linux preloaded. And to your earlier point, and I think you're
going to talk about this more, as far as we know, we are the largest Linux-only vendor
in the world at this point. So just want to put that out there. So I would encourage folks
to give us a try. We have a 30-day guarantee, so if you don't love the machine, we'll
refund you.
Aaron Ross Powell You know what, Ryan? You should get a bonus
stipend as a natural salesman. You are great at that. And I think that was pretty well
said. It is – I think System76 has really gotten a lot of people's attention just
based on the emails I've gotten from CoderRadio. So just a side note, Michael Dominic has
recently gotten the Lemur and I would encourage you, if you're curious, to hear about a
Mac OS primary – he's a developer and he just really cares about shipping apps.
And he has been switching from an app store, creating phone apps for Android and iOS to
server-side apps. And when he started looking at doing more and more server-side stuff,
he kind of started looking at developing for Ubuntu.
And he needed a new machine. It all kind of lined up and he got a Lemur. And the first
couple of weeks – the first couple of weeks went really good. A couple of weeks in, he
hit some road bumps. And now he's like five weeks in and he's like sprinted past them.
And they're all kind of documented like the last four or five weeks of CoderRadio
if you're curious at all and want to go check that out. Just to hear – you know,
somebody who's switching for completely practical reasons …
Matthew Feeney Has real work to get done.
Aaron Ross Powell Not for advocacy reasons. And yeah, it's
fascinating because like in the latest episode, he goes on his trip for – a family trip
and he can only take one machine with him and he brings the Lemur.
And that was interesting. So, anyways, I want to now talk about a little bit, Wes, just
your thoughts on 2020. The year 2020. Microsoft's making like the Studio 3, Apple's still
shipping the same exact MacBook they ship today, but it's got this touch bar on it
still, right?
It's like twice as big.
Don't do anything. It's the same exact Mac. And more PC vendors are falling by the
wayside. Is this a legitimate scenario in your mind? Is this something that we should
actually worry about? Are we heading towards this monolithic vendor platform where the
general PC that you throw together is going to be extinct? And one last thing before I
completely throw it to you is, I'll tell you what, hand on heart, it seems like it
is getting shittier and shittier to build your own PC. Like you order – say you're
going to build like four or five PCs at once. You order the parts off – oh, I don't
know, those jerks over at Newegg. And they all show up and two out of the three parts
don't work. And now when you build a PC, it's constantly, well, do I have to RMA
this part? Is this not the right thing? It's the worst. It has gotten – if you do one
PC and all your parts show up and everything works, good for you. Congratulations. You
win the internet for the day. But for those of us that might try to build multiple machines
at once and you get all of the same effing parts, it's not like you get all the weird
parts. Three of the same motherboards, three of the same video cards, three of the same
sticks of RAM, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
I think you'll forever be burned by this.
Well, it just recently happened to the beard too.
Oh no.
Yeah, I'm sure he'll tell you all about it on user error coming up. Anyways, my point
is it's getting to be shitty out there. For those of us that want a general PC platform
based on the x86 chip that I can just throw Linux on there. Thank God there's still
vendors out there shipping Linux-specific machines. But I am worried about the year
2020, Wes. And do you share my chicken little outlook or do you think things are just going
to be fine and dandy? For those of us who want a non-secure boot, non-lockdown, non-ARM
licensed platform that we can just install Linux and get work done.
I think it's plausible. I think there's still a large inertia in the enterprise sector.
I think Dell has that pretty well done and their competitors in that arena in terms of
business workstations just for right now. I don't know how long that will take. But
I do think what you're saying is very plausible in the consumer space, the mobile phonification
of these. And then it's a couple of large vendors. It starts getting blurred between
like, what do they make? It's a tablet, it's a tablet and a computer. Oh, your computer
is just a big touch screen. Where does this draw? So I could definitely see that people
will get used to buying in that model, a normal computer where you just have an LCD monitor
that isn't a touch screen. We have a keyboard and a mouse unless you're doing a lot of work
at home or you can't get a nice little keyboard. I could see a lot of people doing that especially.
And then maybe they still have their Dell OEM thing at work for their engineering job
or something. But I don't know where that puts a consumer person who just wants to buy
a thousand doesn't need to buy a thousand. It probably will mean that market shrinks.
It may mean that building your own computer is no longer less expensive or even competitive
with buying something that you could get. And you may just need to start doing things
like maybe the people like System76 still competing or IX systems that get yourself
built a custom system. But I definitely see it could be bleak. We'll see just how bad
it gets though.
Anybody in the Mamba Room want to jump in on the topic before we move on? If you have
any thoughts on the year 2020 and how it's going to look for the general PC platform
and loading Linux. I know it's kind of out there. But it's something I've been thinking
about when I look at like the response to the Surface Studio and people like oh my god
Microsoft is innovating. Oh man this is incredible. Look at them. Oh the touch bar. Like anyway
anybody in the Mamba Room have any thoughts on that?
I still think that going second. Let me see going second hand would be better or I still
believe in building your own. I know you've had issue and maybe Rekai has issue but that
doesn't necessarily mean everybody's going to. And most people that I know who still
build know that's going to be a thing that they watch out for that. So unfortunately
it's a thing that you have to watch out for. So keep in mind and it'll always be there.
I feel like building your own is the ultimate. And me personally I still try to build my
own. But also if someone's asking me or a family member or a friend I still try to suggest
something that will be Linux friendly. Like Dell still does XPS with Linux. You know System
D6 is definitely up there. Introware. Even Purism. I mean you know I try to just do that.
I'll say this too just in defense of build your own. The systems that we successfully
where the hardware works and all of those. Those systems are so unbelievably rock solid.
They're like the best computers ever. In fact that computer right there is a system we built
years ago that was first built as a hackintosh. Then it was the main presentation machine
that I used for visuals on the stream. Then it was my primary workstation. Then it was
a temporary editing system for Linux Fest Northwest. And now it's our mumble slash Skype
system. And it's got to be six years old. And it is a custom build system that has just
been a rock solid totally great performer. But Bitmux I want to give you a chance to
jump in on why you're not really so worried about the commodity market drying up. Go ahead.
I think it's definitely going to shift. I think we'll see perhaps a reduction in number
of individual parts available or number of manufacturers available making motherboards
and individual parts and pieces. But NVIDIA is not going away and ASUS and Intel they're
not going to go away. And they're always going to be building hardware that's going to work
in the server market because obviously that's not going away either. So I think x86 I mean
as a platform is going to be competed with by other platforms. ARM is already competing
and yes it's closed. Yes that's not good. However I don't think it's going to disappear
on us until you get something like quantum computing or some completely generational
leap in which case I'm not too worried that the Linux community is not going to jump on
board there if it's at all possible.
I like that. That's a fair take. I think that sounds pretty rational. And Mr. Sipes I'll
give you the closing thought on the topic. Go ahead Ryan.
So the only thing about building your own and I have a machine beside me that I built
a couple of years back that I still love and it works great is that when you build your
own they have no idea. The vendors of like for instance Nvidia and Intel and the motherboard
have no idea what operating system that you're running on that machine. And so versus like
buying something from system 76 or another Linux vendor those people are actively saying
to the folks the vendors like hey we're running Linux on this. All these purchases that we
purchase from you are for Linux machines and that equals voting with your wallet. And so
you see better Linux support as a result of that. There's a reason why Nvidia is now we're
now able to talk to Nvidia directly and that's because we've managed to buy enough of their
products that it's worth their time to have a conversation with us. And so there is an
element when you buy a machine of voting with your voting with your wallet and that's why
I discourage people from buying Windows machines with Windows licenses because that's being
chalked up to another Windows sale which means more more time and resources going into making
sure that that hardware supports Windows well and not into making it support Linux well.
And this was one of the reasons that I joined system 76 so that we could have you know so
that I could help a company that's going to make Linux a better experience on hardware
period. And so I would just ask that everybody take that into account before you before you
buy a machine from like Lenovo that's got Windows pre-installed throw Linux on it. You
know think about what that is what you're voting for. You're going for a secure boot.
Oh get it out of here.
Gollum has been thrown down Mr. Sykes I like it and I tend I tend to agree. In fact I often
you know I talk about I talk about voting with your wallet in a big sense because I
think it just being able to represent that market is is pretty important. And I don't
know if until you really think about it you know you know it might not cross your mind
you know you look at how I look for this kind of thing I want this keyboard or I want the
nipple here or I want the this this functionality that does this and that's sort of what predominantly
might drive your decision. But as you sort of look at this from an advocacy standpoint
you do have to think well what is in my best long term interest as the platform that I
want to use to get my work done. You know for me I not only do I use Linux because I
love it. Right I love it Wes. I love it. But I use Linux because it's the best platform
for me to get my work done. My work. Wes the work stuff the stuff that I use that pays
the bills that puts the cereal in my children's mouth. The work. Well unfortunately the work
I do depends on Linux. And so when you think about a platform that makes you money it's
a whole it's a whole different way of thinking about it. It's a whole different perspective
it's a whole different lens to look at Linux and your investment in this long term success.
The reason you want to use Linux as a general computing platform is because it doesn't have
that strategy tax and and the way to make it a successful long term platform on desktop
hardware is by voting with your wallet and buying from companies that support Linux out
of the box. And I mean I am I'm often tempted you know because myself I have a workflow
that works best with Final Cut. So I'm tempted like gosh it would be nice to have a faster
laptop that I do will boot Final Cut. I mean Mac Mac Mac OS whatever they call it. Essentially
Final Cut OS and Arch Desktop. Right. That's what I would like to be able to do. And so
it's tempting from just like I can get more work done faster standpoint. Very practical.
That's very like right now. You know what it means is if this if I can get this done
faster that means I get to go sit on the couch and snuggle sooner. And that is what it's
really about. It's about being able to YouTube and chill. I don't want to have to work extra
when I can have a machine that does a job faster. And so when I look at that orcs and
I look at other systems like that are just super ass fast. I just I oh man I hope more
and more professionals go that way so that way one day my workflow is available on there.
I can do like 98 percent of my job closer every year but it's like not quite. And now
I am so close. I'm like I'm like I'm like on the boat and I'm starving and I can see
the coast but I can't yet get to land. It's torturous. So Mr. West you have the Apollo
there running Fedora 25. I mean I don't know yet. I just noticed that you have given me
back the gauntlet here the red Toshiba 16 gigabyte drive. The flag has been laid down.
So let's find out if you went into legacy boot mode if you had to if you used EUFI and
if Fedora 25 is booting. But first Linux Academy Linux Academy dot com slash unplugged is where
you go to support the show. It's a platform created by Linux enthusiast. For those of
you who want to learn more about Linux make some money improve your career or your skill
set or even just challenge yourself. Linux Academy dot com slash unplugged. That's where
you go to support the show and sign up for a seven day free trial. I like this because
it doesn't matter sort of what your bent is on training. If you want to go after certs
they have course tracks for you. If you want to just actually improve your skill set they
have hands on scenario based labs to give you real world experience on real servers.
If you're interested in like certain types of content they have learning paths that give
you highlights on those particular tracks. And the other thing that's really nice is
if you're a company they have team accounts so a bunch of you can work together. So you're
going to implement something new at your business and you want to train everybody on it. Linux
Academy has courseware on that. They just recently closed another round of funding and
every time they do that they invest back into the courseware. It just gets better and better.
Improve on the existing courseware and then create new stuff that I mean like at first
when they launched the I'll be honest when they launched the Azure courseware I was like
really Azure. But now like months months and months later it's like oh yeah obviously of
course because it's not just the essentials like how you build a Linux system or how it
works or how you fundamentally interact with Linux or how you do some of the basic networking
essentials but it's all of this stuff around Linux too as a platform.
And I think that shows that they're not you know they're not playing catch up. They're
giving you things like when they're hot you know and before when they're when Linux Academy
sees that people are really using them works getting done they are professionals in the
industry so they know.
It's kind of nice too if you're a listener of this show you're going to love the community
it's stacked full of Jupiter broadcasting members because they've been a sponsor with
us since the very beginning Linux Academy dot com slash unplugged and a big thank you
to Linux Academy for sponsoring the Unplugged program Linux Academy dot com slash unplugged.
So I want to ask Ike Mr. Solace on Twitter Mr. at Solace project on Twitter the heart
behind Solace a distribution that puts the middle finger to everybody else's face and
does it its own way and and I really got to respect it because it's it really is a desktop
operating systems designed for modern computing we were talking about on the pre show which
maybe will be in the post show of this show that sort of makes a list stand out from a
woe that I was suffering under arch and we've kind of been checking with Ike over the year
as he's been doing major improvements and of course Josh is a longtime community member
as well he stopped by and so I've been thinking about something recently that seems impossible
and it's only going to get me trolled so I thought Ike would be the best person to consult
obviously so Ike welcome back to the Linux Unplugged show.
Thanks for having me.
So I wanted to genuinely and I really truly mean this I wanted to test the usability feel
of different desktop environments and distributions like comparing KDE Plasma and KWin to say
gnome clutter mutter gnome shell and just the feel of all like how do you measure the
feel of something and the reason why I thought of you Ike is because Solace feels like it's
one of those distributions where how the desktop feels how fast it feels how it all goes together
how softwares install how all of that feels is part of the consideration it's one of
those unquantifiable things that almost just comes down to taste and perception and so
I feel like maybe this is an impossible goal of mine but I wanted to pick your brain as
not just a distro maintainer but as somebody who's thinking about the feel of it all
the time.
How do you measure it?
How do I how do I review and benchmark it?
Well I mean it's kind of a case of benchmarking real performance versus perceived performance
which is how fast the user thinks something is and the the changes we've had in operating
systems in the last few years especially with the advent of system D with having things
start later in the boot process we've kind of moved towards perceived performance as
an example when you log into a desktop your networking isn't actually ready yet it's
starting up and then it's ready after you've logged in so I think that's more of the question
isn't it like how do users think things are fast even if they're not?
I mean the best example of that really is with material design it's completely focused
on the perceived performance of something which is why you have short snappy animations
that can't be beyond say 300 milliseconds and they've got to use circular tweening so
it doesn't look like there's any delay in the start and end of any animation and I think
that's what it all really comes down to is how fast does it really look does it feel
like it's responding immediately to a click and as an example of that one of the quite
clever tricks I've seen in Unity 8 is even if an application is not launched yet there
is a window there and that window is a placeholder until that application is ready you see something
similar in Endless OS as well where they have a placeholder window waiting for the application
to load you have a spinner and then the application is there so it feels like the system is responding
immediately the alternative would be something like LibreOffice where it doesn't show up
for a couple of seconds and then you see that window so you're thinking okay it's slower
on this distro I don't know why it just seems like this distro is slower and we've had that
said about solos as well LibreOffice feels slower on solos it actually takes the same
amount of time to start up it's just that splash window doesn't show at the same time
so it's not really a case of real performance is being measured anymore it's how long did
the user wait for a reaction to an input event.
That's kind of what I was thinking like and measuring like how the windows move across
the screen as you drag them and things like that like what's that what's that impact like
when you when you move something when you interact with an object on the screen.
Right and there's probably an element too of you know like where's the user's focus
in this event so as long as that that part is snappy and responsive you can have other
things in the background that they're not paying attention to.
Yeah and they have to feel like they've got absolute control so the example of the window
something I remember from Compass a couple of years ago dragging the window across the
screen it felt like the window was slightly drifting it wasn't quite stuck to the mouse
and it's like okay is this just slower it just wasn't slow that was at the time that
was the cool thing to do because it was gliding across had an inertia yeah yeah but nowadays
it's like no it's got to be exactly where I am it's got to be the immediate second I
do something it's reacting but that also has the downside of nowadays it let's have spinny
bars and progress bars and radial progresses everywhere instead of actually making the
thing itself faster or asynchronous.
All right so just between between us I don't so you have I understand pretty clearly on
the plasma desktop you got Kaywin which is responsible for throwing all the shit up on
the screen and under Gnome 3 you've got Mudder right I think so far I'm on track and under
Unity you have Compiz.
What do I have on Solus that is throwing the shit up on the screen you know and maybe theoretically
talking to my GPU?
So at the moment with well with a Budgie desktop we make use of Mudder as well now to make
a distinction because people often get the impression that Budgie is a gnome shell that's
not gnome shell we use some of the same libraries but basically I don't like Mudder anymore
and I know I'll get flack for that but it's for gnome shell it should be for gnome shell
I shouldn't be using it anymore so basically the way it works with Mudder and that particular
pipeline is actually quite heavy so instead of just having a window as to rendering directly
to this bit of memory and it's shown on your display because you're using compositing that's
actually shown that's actually rendered to a buffer first and then the compositor basically
does them all you know it's compositing them so you've got all these different windows
and it's making a new texture out of them before it shows them to the GPU.
In Mudder itself you've got several layers for that you've got Coggle you've got Clutter
itself and now they have private forks inside that so Clutter is basically the scene graph
on top of Coggle which is a GL abstraction layer on top of OpenGL so yeah so there's
quite a few layers now in terms of gnome shell and one of the questions people asked before
about Mudder and they ask it for us in Budgie as well is why don't you implement better
effects the chief among them that everybody wants is from compass right it's blurs everybody
wants a blur behind the window or a panel because iOS made it sexy so investigated the
same thing for Budgie myself but the way in which Mudder is set up with the pipeline and
process I can't apply say like you would in a game you just apply a shader right and you've
got that bit of transparency there well you know obviously to blur that bit behind it
you have your Z index that's all fine the way that things are done in Mudder is completely
different each one of them is a sec is a separate object on the frame buffer right so you would
then have to apply behind that object you'd have to read the pixels behind for every time
you did a render yeah which would make something like a blur effect incredibly expensive on
Mudder but if you was to say I don't know write a new compositor then perhaps it wouldn't
be so if oh so you hit if a new compositor were to come along that would be a bigger
undertaking for some yeah like say I don't know if it was a goal for Budgie 12 to drop
the last of the normal components because Budgie 11 were departing from Budgie from
Nome basically Budgie 12 will see as completely disconnected from the the underpinnings of
Nome itself so we still want to be compatible in all applications don't get me wrong no
maps are kind of cool but the way that we went about it is a lot of the time Budgie
pretends to be Nome shell to make things work like keyboard shortcuts yeah because that's
the way the Nome stack has gone in the way it's not really as reusable as it once was
Nome settings demon when you take a screenshot it tries to talk to org.nome.shell.dbus so
things like that we have to pretend so Budgie 11 starting to remove all that Budgie 12 it'll
be completely removed i.e. not even Mudder will be left hin hin.
So I what I'm hearing is I mean sort of indirectly is if I want the absolute smoothest desktop
I should probably use Kwin still I mean I like that's what I should is there a way to
use Kwin as my compositor because I don't know I want to test super smooth desktops
and I'm worried I'm honestly worried that Mudder is gonna fail this test is what I'm
thinking and all of the desktops that use Mudder will probably fail as well.
Basically yeah I mean Mudder itself I mean it works for Nome shell it does what they
want to do and I don't want to knock that but for what we want out like the other guys
who are thinking beyond Nome shell what we want from the desktop which is you know super
fluid and a genuine open GL compositor and hopefully Vulkan in the future but I know
they're not receptive to that at the moment then yeah Kwin is probably your best option
because Compiz is basically you've got two versions of Compiz you've got Unity and you've
got Mate and yeah you could probably make your own custom desktop session using Kwin.
Okay all right all right Whitby do you have any thoughts as far as this stuff kind of
matters is the end user experience I mean I'm not actually I'm not clear on how this
works with the Mate desktop I know with Ubuntu Mate I can switch to Compiz I can switch to
software rendering and I generally switch to Compiz if I can and I'm wondering if you
have any kind of closing thoughts on this particular topic.
So in the Mate tweak you can switch between different window managers and compositors
and if you install Metacity and Mudder they will appear as things that you can switch
to in Mate tweak and the reason that Mudder has never been you know installed or advocated
by myself is because it it's completely inappropriate for the Mate desktop just as Aiki described
it's not not a window manager that I should be using and I'll actually pull that intelligence
out of Mate tweak that runs with that.
With regards to Compiz I made some changes to Compiz that adds the Mate support so that
it comes pre bundled with a set of plugins sanely configured for the Mate desktop specifically.
Now I feel like I should go on a Kaywin Bender should I have installed the KDE on here I'm
thinking yeah I'm thinking so so Wes how did it go let's let's tune in here real quick
to find out.
It's for people who like to mess with computers.
Oh I secretly use Arch Linux.
So how did the Fedora 25 challenge go for you Wes how did it turn out were you able
to get it to boot yeah I don't know what you mean how you managed to screw that up Chris
but here give it a shot no problem you know what I think it was as I just said like here
reclaim all the space hit enter and then let it then I let it go so oh look at that Wes
look at that right there right into the right boom boom that's nice Wes that looks good
I will say it's on the Wi-Fi it's on the Wi-Fi ready for your use I will say you have two
hard drives in there it did use both of them so it set up a yeah ext4 on top of LVM yeah
swap partition as well so hopefully that's what you want that was what I tried to do
originally so that's perfect wow very nice you know it's what were your you know just
quick impressions using the Apollo what you think I like that machine yeah I could see
getting a lot of work done on that yeah I feel like it's gonna be nice I feel like it's
a five-year machine yes definitely it's a good size it's a good weight and it looks
premium I feel like that metal look is not going anywhere so yeah and I'm just like I'm
sitting here holding with one hand just tossing around and it still feels super solid keyboard
yeah so fedora 25 this will be probably one of my primary drivers but I think I might
I think I might try the I'm sure there's a KD version right I've never really done that
during a fedora review so that'll be weird for me I should probably get ISOs downloading
or something because you know there's no there's no option when you install fedora it's just
no there's no like you don't choose your desktop environment it's a spin so you're gonna yeah
all right well so I think that's that's probably all we have I think we're probably done now
I got a machine I gotta go try I got fedora 25 so much more Linux I got I got a kwin bender
I gotta go on real quickly I was just gonna mention to that I could just had a new update
go out they the solace project just shipped a kernel 4.88 support and some junk are you
AMD GPU users which is probably nobody care what what we have 4.8 point 10 where you've
been what I'm reading Twitter right now I'm reading the Twitter right now yeah I mean
we got 4.8 point 10 in since then all right yeah we get all this stuff you were supposed
to talk about the 80 AMD Radeon GPU junk because I was doing that to troll all of the AMD GPU
users and and they're gonna hate me now they're gonna get so yeah well I mean it's not as
impressive as people think because everyone's getting excited about the AMD GPU stuff of
course we have the XOR drivers and that stuff is all cool yeah however oh the kernel support
is in there you need 4.9 kernel to make use of the South Island is it whatever name it
is they have anyway the AMD SI stuff you cannot use without the 4.9 kernel and enable an experimental
option so as much as the new AMD GPU drivers out the new Radeon drivers out they're still
not gonna make any difference without the kernel yeah they gotta wait till like December
the 4th assuming that the 4.9 kernel doesn't slip back a week which it may do so it's like
minimum December the 4th before anyone gets to play with it unless you want to run RC
like a lunatic so it'll be a good Christmas for you my kind of lunacy that is your Christmas
that is my kind of lunacy right there well thank you guys all for joining us in the mumble
room stay tuned we'll be doing a little post-show discussion but our mumble room is open to
the public if you'd like to hang out in our virtual lug just go over to jblive.tv we do
this show live on Tuesdays go to jupitabroadcasting.com slash calendar to find out when everybody
always says hey Chris when's unplugged all these guys up in here every day every day
they all be asking you during the show you know it jupitabroadcasting.com slash calendars
where you go to get it converted to your local time zone linuxactorshow.reddit.com is where
you go to submit contact info or actually input and contact information is at jupitabroadcasting.com
slash contact it's obvious duh go there duh do it i don't know what your problem is do
it figure it out god you're so annoying right now i don't know why that's not obvious anyways
linux unplug the show that does not hold your hand and judges you along the way what that's
a hell of a pitch thanks for joining us see you back here next week
most of the web runs on servers powered by linux that's true you know what that's a great
point and you know every time he says it it sounds very authoritative most of the web
runs on servers powered by linux it's like that's how reliable it is android phones are
based on linux all android phones run linux that's true that's the operating system that's
a good point you're probably using linux all the time maybe you don't even know it idiot
so you can get a free version of linux there are many as i mentioned ubuntu is a good one
yeah ubuntu.com that's leo's talking down and install it on your xp machine you wipe
in fact i would wipe out all the xp just install it there doesn't run windows software very
well it does in fact run it but not very well but that's okay because it has an entire office
suite available for it for free libra office it has all the software you know photoshop
clone called the game impressed you with all the software you want is free and available
on the linux platform yeah yeah that's all that's all fair that's all a good point but
then then leo had a few drinks and he took a call and mind you this is all before leo
tried linux so he's he's a changed man now but before he had switched to linux he was
drinking and somebody called in and they asked they asked leo about switching to linux and
this was his response after a couple of beers in it's for people who like to mess with computers
if you're and you know who you are if you're somebody who doesn't want to mess i just want
to surf the i just want to buy something on amazon send an email to my kids look at some
websites there you go the image of him just frustrated and drunk trying to send pictures
to people on the internet is just you know what i'm a damn i'm damn impressed he's still
rocking i think he got like did he get an oryx actually speaking of or maybe he might
have he might have and i think he's still like i think it's just might have now gotten
replaced by the new macbook escape i think it's just maybe now gotten replaced i see
i see but he was rocking the oryx for a while that's pretty cool so uh last one this week
he was rocking the oryx yeah so jbtitles.com mr sypes are you still in there you had a
point you wanted to make about mutter and elementary os which i wanted to pick up on
yeah i don't know if ike is still in here but it looks like he is yeah you might talk
he is you might talk to the elementary guys because they had a they had quite a few features
that they actually i guess helped write for mutter and then at first the mutter guy said
they'd accept them and then they 180'd on that and so they share concerns about mutter
as well so is gala so i'm curious so elementary os so when i was thinking about this performance
like the feel benchmark i was thinking i should try compass mutter gala and kaywin that seemed
to be like the way to like as like a as like but is that boring because that's just my
curiosity and then on top of that like what's the hardware should i use should they all
be on intel should it be an nvidia gtx 960 or a 10 series like what's the bench what
should be the benchmark hardware that all of these get compared against that all well
can you win kaywin is is part of the holy trinity in the church of neon whoa whoa whoa
whoa whoa whoa are you trying to get me to use kde neon again all hail neon all hail
neon all hail neon you know you keep mentioning all these issues that katie completely solves
so you know oh yeah like what what what issues what issues do i keep mentioning the kde solves
katie has like a scaling for idpi yeah once you turn it on once you go in there and turn
it on and still the mouse cursor never looks right come on you're coming at me with high
dpi support when i'm looking at elementary os and gtk 3.22 you're coming at me with
high dpi support can i make a comment about the high dpi support because there's something
i slightly disagreed there earlier ryan you mentioned about the high dpi support on the
devices and now this is not a driver level thing obviously the drivers have to support
the resolution we know this to these be 4k native this is something at the toolkit and
desktop level this is not something you implement at a driver level so i just wanted to correct
that there our driver is what we call our piece of our software repository that we ship
with you mean the system 76 driver package right yeah yeah yeah and so no it's not it's
not implemented at the driver level it's it's just something that we we ship in order to
handle those sure i just wanted to clarify in the word in there because you said driver
i got a bit confused to be honest with you yeah it's confusing to me too but it's but
that's what uh but we haven't yet changed the name of that package okay it's not like
a system 76 defaults kind of thing yeah it needs to be something like defaults or like
i don't know extras or something like that um you can just play this episode for people
out there now and well you know you'll have no argument one it's not x it's wayland is
currently our top title this is not bad i also like mixed desktop feelings that's not
bad i like that one as well i really genuinely so okay honest response if i want a great
fedora desktop can i get one with katie with a recent version of the plasma desktop right
now is that possible on day one of fedora 25 i don't think it is right i see you as
spin iso and oh you did in the slack channel oh so there is today a spin with a modern
plasma desktop and it's probably pretty bare but i think i'm gonna give it a go you can
get a modern plasma desktop but uh katie neon if you're not convinced yet kwin has the best
of cube so do you think oh okay do you think i okay so maybe i should do the neon challenge
in a little bit but i gotta get through the fedora 25 review first i gotta i gotta i gotta
stay focused hey chris when's the next episode sunday i'm gonna review fedora 25 on sunday
and then after that i could be up for the neon challenge yeah there you go it depends
on how it goes with katie hey chris yeah when is tech snap this week uh good question it's
going to be at 10 a.m our time because of thanksgiving so we're going to do it on thanksgiving
day we're just going to do it early because i'm a maniac you'll be uh cooking a turkey
so one o'clock my time yeah i'll be cooking on east coast yeah i'm gonna have a turkey
fryer going off to my side we'll be frying the turkey i wish oh you could live stream
i would watch a live stream of chris would you i should i actually think that'd be a
lot of fun uh so do we like it's not x it's wayland yeah that's not bad i do like the
mix it's sort of like an inferred uh reference to fedora 25 i also like a mixed desktop feeling
so jb titles.com why don't we give it uh just a couple of more lawnmower seconds so when
the lawnmower is done we'll we'll pick our title
get it out of here i think it's wasted effort yep it's winter now no need for this moan
then your description is is not accurate now he's questioning me come on snowman what's
wrong with that all right so uh by the end of the lawnmower man our final victor is it's
not x it's wayland by one boat in back eight nicely done one boat and a and a and a and
a title with a comma in it yeah that's unusual unusual gonna break everyone's everything
the internet was never the same